# MSDS- Primary Battery

Issue date: 2023.01.01

# *Material Safety Data Sheet*

This sheet is only provided as technical information and is referred normal use of the product in question. GP makes no warranty expressed or implied.

## **Section 1-Product and Company Identification**

| Product Name<br>●                                                       | Sizes:               |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| Alkaline zinc-manganese dioxide batteries                               | 6LR61/1604A/9V       |
| Company:<br>●                                                           | Telephone Numbers:   |
| GPI International Ltd.                                                  | +852 2484 3111       |
| Zhongyin (Ningbo) Battery Co., Ltd.                                     |                      |
| Address:<br>●                                                           | Fax<br>Numbers:      |
| 7/F,<br>Building<br>16W,<br>16<br>Science<br>Park<br>West               | +852 2420 3450       |
| Avenue,<br>Hong<br>Kong<br>Science<br>Park,<br>New<br>Territories. H.K. | Date of preparation: |
|                                                                         | Jan.1,<br>2023       |

## **Section 2-Composition/Information on Ingredients**

| Ingredient                | CAS#       | Approximate<br>Content(wt%) |
|---------------------------|------------|-----------------------------|
| Manganese Dioxide (MnO2)  | 1313-13-9  | 31.7                        |
| Zinc (Zn)                 | 7440-66-6  | 12.2                        |
| Water (H2O)               | 7732-18-5  | 5.8                         |
| Potassium Hydroxide (KOH) | 1310-58-3  | 1.4                         |
| Graphite                  | 7782-42-5  | 1.7                         |
| Brass                     | 12597-71-6 | 4.1                         |
| Steel                     | 7439-89-6  | 25.6                        |
| Ni-plating                | 7440-02-0  | 0.3                         |
| Nylon-66                  | None       | 1.2                         |
| Fiber                     | None       | 1.1                         |
| PBT plastic               | 26062-94-2 | 2.6                         |
| Fe                        | 7439-89-6  | 12.1                        |

## **Section 3-Hazards Identification**

This contains [potassium](javascript:;) [hydroxide](javascript:;) [solution](javascript:;) (KOH), and other combustible materials, all

# MSDS- Primary Battery

Issue date: 2023.01.01

sealed in steel can. For this reason, improper handling of the battery could lead to distortion, leakage*, overheating, explosion and cause human injury or equipment trouble. Please strictly observe safety instructions.

(*leakage is defined as an unintended escape of liquid from a battery.)

#### **Section 4-First Aid Measures**

None unless internal materials exposure. If contents are leaked out, observe following instructions

- Inhalation Fumes can cause respiratory irritation. Remove to fresh air and consult a physician.
- Skin Immediately flush skin with plenty of water. If itch or irritation by chemical burn persists, consult a physician.
- Eyes Immediately flush eye with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes. Consult a physician immediately

Ingestion If swallowing a battery, consult a physician immediately.

 If contents come into mouth, immediately rinse by plenty of water and consult a physician.

#### **Section 5-Fire Fighting Measures**

In case of fire, it is permissible to use any class of extinguishing medium on these batteries or their packing material. Cool exterior of batteries if exposed to fire to prevent rupture.

Fire fighters should wear self-contained breathing apparatus.

## **Section 6-Accidental Release Measures**

Steps to be taken in case material is released or spilled.

Batteries that are leakage should be handled with rubber gloves.

Avoid direct contact with electrolyte.

Wear protective clothing and a positive pressure Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus

NA=Not Applicable Page 2 of 4

# MSDS- Primary Battery

Issue date: 2023.01.01

(SCBA).

# **Section 7-Handling and Storage**

#### 1) Handling

Never swallow. Never charge. Never heat. Never expose to open flame. Never disassemble. Never reverse the positive and negative terminals when mounting. Never short-circuit the battery. Never weld the terminal or wire to the body of the battery directly. Never use different batteries together. Never touch the liquid leaked out of battery. Never bring fire close to battery liquid. Never keep in touch with battery.

2) Storage

Never store the battery in hot and high humid place.

## **Section 8-Exposure Controls**/**Personal Protection**

No engineering measure is necessary during normal use. If internal cell materials are leaked, the information in Section 4 & Section 6 will be useful.

#### **Section 9-Physical/Chemical Characteristics**

Nominal Voltage: 9.0V

## **Section 10-Stability and Reactivity**

| Stability                             | Stable         |
|---------------------------------------|----------------|
| Hazardous polymerization              | Will not occur |
| Condition to avoid                    | See section 7  |
| Hazardous Decomposition or Byproducts | Hydrogen       |

**Section 11-Toxicological Information** NA **Section 12-Ecological Information** NA

## **Section 13-Disposal condition**

The battery may be regulated by national or local regulation. Please follow the instructions of proper regulation. As electric capacity is left in a discarded battery and it comes into contact with other metals, it could lead to distortion, leakage, overheating, or explosion, so make sure to cover the (+) and (-) terminals with friction tape or some other insulator before disposal.

NA=Not Applicable Page 3 of 4

# MSDS- Primary Battery Issue date: 2023.01.01

#### **Section 14-Transportation Information**

In general, all batteries in all forms of transportation (ground, air, or ocean) must be packaged in a safe and responsible manner. Regulatory concerns from all agencies for safe packaging require that batteries be packaged in a manner that prevents short circuits and be contained in "strong outer packaging" that prevents spillage of contents. All original packaging for GP alkaline batteries has been designed to be compliant with these regulatory concerns.

Alkaline batteries (sometimes referred to as "Dry cell" batteries) are not listed as dangerous goods under the ADR European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, the IMDG International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, UN Dangerous Good Regulations, IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations, ICAO Technical Instructions and the U.S. hazardous materials regulations (49 CFR). These batteries are not subject to the dangerous goods regulations provided they meet the requirements contained in the following special provisions.

| Regulatory Body | Special<br>Provisions        |
|-----------------|------------------------------|
| ADR             | Not regulated                |
| IMDG            | Not regulated                |
| UN              | Not regulated                |
| US DOT          | 49 CFR 172.102 Provision 130 |
| IATA            | A123                         |
| ICAO            | Not regulated                |

All GP alkaline batteries are packed in such a way to prevent short circuits or the generation of dangerous quantities of heat and meet the special provisions listed above. In addition, the 2023 IATA (64th edition) Dangerous Goods Regulations and ICAO Technical Instructions require the words "not restricted" and the Special Provision number A123 be provided on the air waybill, when an air waybill is issued.

#### **Section 15-Regulatory Information**

USA EPA Mercury Containing & Rechargeable Battery Management Act of 1996: No mercury added

EU Battery Directive 2006/66/EC Amended 2013/56/EU: GP batteries are compliant with all aspects of the Directive

## **Section 16-Other Information**

If you want further information, please contact GP sales representative